[MUSIC PLAYING]
>> Do you have
stress in your life?
I bet you do, because
most of us do.
As a matter of fact, stress
is the number one killer
in the United States today.
And we're going to talk
to a motivational speaker
and a trainer today who
had some of the answers
on how we can deal with
the stress in our life.
I'd like to introduce
you to Celeste Johnson.
>> Hi.
>> Glad to have you here.
Your program is called
"The Balancing Act."
And I think that's a very
interesting term, the balancing
act.
What does that mean to you?
>> Oh, it means being able to
juggle the myriad of demands
that we have, and the
desires that we have.
And how do you juggle those
things and not drop the ball,
or have some balance
in your life?
And it's so
important to do that.
And I think it's really an art.
It's an art.
It's a skill that
you have to develop.
And we all are facing it.
We're all facing
the situations where
we have too much on our plate.
Things are changing so fast.
We're all feeling
remnants of Stress--
in capital letters.
And what we have
to do is to learn
how to take those components--
those components are
important, those components
that are not important, decipher
which they are, and then
have some balance.
And have some enjoyment, so
we're enjoying life and not
just going through life on what
I call the proverbial treadmill
of life.
>> Do you think women are more
apt to have stress and balance
in their life, and trouble with
balancing their life, than men?
>> Absolutely.
And I think it
really goes back to,
I guess, the stereotypes
in some of the systems
that we had of old,
where women were
expected to do the things in
the home-- the typical things.
Even though we're in the '90s
and we do have a lot of women
out there in the workforce,
still, a lot of people
expect women to continue to
do all of the same things they
did before in the home.
Take care of the children,
do the grocery shopping,
et cetera, and work a full-time
job and do all of the things
that, typically, the
male would do so.
And I think women themselves
still feel that responsibility.
And occasionally, you'll have
a spouse, or friend, or someone
else that will help you there.
But I think that women
still internalize the fact
that I should be the caretaker,
and I've got to do it all.
And our society tells
us, you can have it all.
You can do it all.
And we believe it.
And we're out there
trying to do it.
And we find ourselves
just feeling burnt out,
which is where I say is
the ultimate stress--
is really getting burned out.
>> And you said "a lot
of people" seem to think.
Are you talking about men?
>> Actually, I think
it's across the board.
I think men a lot--
more so than women.
>> You think men expect women
to be the caretakers in the home
and work a full-time job?
>> Absolutely.
Most of them.
I do have some friends
in mind that I've
experienced a little
different, but that's a rarity.
I usually don't find
a lot of men who--
wife may be involved with the
workforce in whatever degree,
some more involved in others.
But they still expect
her to come home
and do some of the
domestic things--
many of the domestic things.
Or at least arrange
to get them done.
Even if she's not the one
that actually does it,
she would just take care of it.
It's not even part of
their consciousness
to have to deal with that.
>> So we have a second shift.
>> Yes.
>> And the first shift.
First, second, third.
>> What got you
interested in this?
>> In the balancing
act in particular?
Oh, I tell you, I lived it.
I tell you, I used to
work very closely--
I still do-- with a
motivational speaker, Les Brown.
And I love this industry.
I love what we do.
And we got together
to do some projects.
Well, I always have
this attitude--
this can-do attitude,
and "I can do this."
And I didn't control
that very well.
So as different projects and
responsibilities would come up,
I would say, oh,
yes, I can do that.
No problem.
I'll just cut back
on my sleep, right?
And another project or
another problem will come up.
Oh, I can handle that too.
The can-do attitude
can get you in trouble.
So I just kept on taking
on other responsibilities,
and more and more, until
it was a point where
either your body shuts down
or you just get so exhausted.
And that's what I experienced--
that I wasn't
having fun anymore.
I wasn't enjoying my life.
Before I knew it, years
was passing-- literally.
And I wasn't keeping in
touch with my family.
I know many of our
viewers have forgotten
to send birthday
cards, greeting cards,
to your family and friends.
I had Christmas cards
that I still have.
>> From years ago.
>> Years ago.
And just never got around to
those things that connect you
to people, connect you to the
things that are important.
And I think you just kind of
get going, and you get going.
And I felt very burnt out.
And I got to the point
for me where it really
didn't matter what happened.
If I took off--
I had to take off.
I had to get away.
Because I knew I was losing me.
I couldn't see me in
the midst of it anymore.
I only saw work.
Even though it was good,
and it was fruitful,
and it was helping
others, there is
a point when you have
to make sure you're
being true to yourself.
And we are so busy,
we don't have time
to enjoy what we're
saying we're busy for.
And I see a of people
who say, I want
to work a little harder so
my kids can have the better
things, and they can go
to the better schools,
and we can wear the clothes--
and again, our society
feeds into that.
We say, you can have it all.
You can-- sure, just charge
it, or whatever it is.
Just work an extra weekend.
But we have the children--
they have the gym
shoes, the wonderful
ones that cost $150 plus,
but we don't have time to
watch them play in them.
And then-- so what is it for?
And my question always
is, have we given up
too much to have it all?
>> Well, your tape
program and your--
I think it's quite
interesting, because you also
have a workbook.
>> Yes.
Yes.
>> So that people can actually
do the exercises that you give
them on the tape.
But some of these suggestions
you're giving are so basic,
but we tend to forget them.
>> Absolutely.
And I think that's what we do.
>> Like the one.
The one.
That it's so basic that
we forget about is,
learn how to say no.
>> Hello.
That's me.
Didn't do it.
I know, we don't--
they are so basic.
You mentioned that it is simple.
The real nuggets of
wisdom is simple.
They're simple.
Yet we can't do them.
We find them difficult.
We are looking
for the complicated answer.
It's like, just be quiet.
Just say no.
The whole campaign--
>> And you said, say it early.
>> Say it very early.
Say it early, say it firmly.
And just--
>> And don't say maybe.
>> Right.
Because you build
up their hopes.
And people think that maybe
they're going to come.
And then it's harder later
on to come back and say no,
whereas if you say no
and you're able to do it,
it would be a nice surprise,
and they'll be happy.
But I think that it's real
important that we just--
absolutely doesn't do that.
But let me tell you what
I think really works best,
and how you can get to the
point where you can say no
and it feels OK, or a
little bit more comfortable.
If we are clear of
what our goals are,
and what our values
are, and our purpose,
I think that's really
the root of getting away
from some of the stresses.
Because if you're clear what's
important, who's important,
where you're headed, then
it's like a framework
that gives you something
to say yes or no,
if it fits or doesn't fit.
But if you're not
clear of that--
which most people are not--
then it's easy to take
on something else,
because we don't know.
It doesn't fit.
Or it might fit.
Or we just do it because
we have no system.
>> We don't know how to say no.
We're afraid to say no.
>> That's true.
That's true,
because-- That's true.
You don't want to let them down.
We feel like we have
to try to do this.
But if we continue
to do that, we
get to that point where
we're talking about,
getting burnt out.
And then you have to say no.
We talked about--
Les and I, many
times, talk about how,
unfortunately, people wait
until they either get sick--
you get the flu.
You know how you work,
and you work, and then
suddenly you're laid out?
You can't do anything else?
Because we've
overextended ourselves.
We haven't taken
care of ourselves.
Or some medical condition
that just shakes us up.
And then we start looking
at the things that
will keep us in balance
and keep us in order.
But we shouldn't have
to wait to that point.
And that's unfortunate,
what most people do.
>> The other very simple
thing that you say here,
which is very, very shocking--
>> What?
>> Don't answer the phone.
>> It's so simple,
and it's so hard.
The phone rings,
and the first thing
you do-- you could be in
a meeting or whatever.
And you pick it up.
The phone takes priority already
over everything, it seems.
And that's what I say,
don't answer the phone.
It is so efficient
to just let it ring.
Get an answering service.
Everybody has some kind
of voicemail or whatever.
Let that work for you.
Use that.
Let it work for you,
and call back when
you're ready to talk to them.
Set aside a time--
>> Or call back when they're
not home and you can talk
to their voicemail.
>> That's why you can
leave the -- that's right.
That's really an efficient way.
I use that all the time.
Because sometimes I
call intentionally,
like you said, knowing
they're probably not there.
But I can leave the answer.
And you don't have to
have a long conversation.
It's easier to say
no on the phone.
You don't want to talk to
them directly, that's OK.
But absolutely
use the technology
to help you to manage your time.
Time management is so important
to eliminating that stress,
that factor there.
If you understand some of the
tips that are really simple,
like not answering the
phone, like closing your door
if you're at work and you
don't want to deal with it--
there's so many little things.
You can do put a sign
up-- "work in progress."
Or "I'll take appointments
at a certain time."
You control your life.
See, that's the thing.
>> Now, the telephone is
a very insistent thing.
One of my pet peeves has always
been in a department store--
when someone is waiting
on me and the phone rings,
they will answer the phone be--
>> While-- right.
And you're there.
>> And I'm here.
>> I know.
It does bother me.
>> I mean, the
phone is a tyrant.
>> It is.
It really is.
I mean, it's a blessing, but
it's also almost a curse,
sometimes.
You're exactly right.
And that's why we
have to get control.
Turn off the ringer.
We don't want-- we're so
fearful, I guess, I don't know,
that we're going to miss
something important?
>> Are we going
to miss something?
>> I know.
We're going to miss something.
But without that, if
we just continually--
the crisis comes up.
And what I remember--
a phrase, I think.
It was something like, why
make your emergency my crisis?
It's not my issue.
If you don't pick up the
phone, it's not your issue
until you know what
the situation is.
So it's so important
to just try it.
>> Say that again?
Don't make what?
>> Your emergency, my crisis.
Suddenly, whatever your
demands are becomes my crisis.
But I don't have to pick up the
phone, and it won't be mine.
You know?
>> At least you can delay
it until you're better able
to handle--
>> To handle it.
That's right.
>> Sometimes, right?
To--
>> In the time that you want to.
That's right.
>> These are all such
practical things.
I was really
impressed with them.
>> Yes.
And they're very simple.
>> Very simple.
But I think everything
that's good is simple.
>> It is.
It is.
>> It's really good.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
We're talking to
Celeste Johnson here
about her tape program
and her work program
on The Balancing Act,
something we're all
trying to do all the time.
Stay with us.
We'll be right back.
We're talking to Celeste
Johnson, a motivational
and career and an
efficiency counselor who
had a wonderful tape program
called "The Balancing Act,"
and a workbook to match.
Welcome back.
>> Thank you.
>> You talk here about--
I got an awful lot out of this.
Because I said to myself,
I know all of this stuff.
Why am I not doing it?
Because we need someone
like you to remind us.
That's why.
>> I think that's so true.
Most people that
are doing anything
have heard the
fundamental principles
of how you can be successful,
how you can manage your time.
We've heard it at
one time or another.
But I think what's
real important
for me is that people
have to hear it
when they're ready for it.
Because we're in different
stages all the time.
We're in different situations.
And sometimes I may
hear it at a point
where it just really
doesn't apply.
Or later, I'll hear the same
thing and it's like, oh,
you hear it.
You finally really hear it.
And so I think it's that.
It's that you need
to be reminded.
It's just like exercise.
You get up and you
get into the groove,
and you do it really
well for a while,
and then you kind of slack off.
And you need somebody
to come back--
"Come on.
Get up."
Here's really how you do it.
And it's a reminder to
get you going again.
So we need that.
We all need that.
>> That's our job, to remind
each other of what we already
know, right?
>> That's right.
That's right.
Gently and lovingly,
but remind us.
>> You go and speak
to huge corporations,
and you're a keynote speaker
at many organizations.
>> That's right.
>> What do they ask you
to speak about, mostly?
>> Mostly, it's
dealing with balance--
trying to get the balance
in the order in their lives,
more than anything.
I mean, and then--
they do indicate they're
interested in time management,
and managing the different
things that are coming.
But the key is juggling all
of these different things.
Especially with the
downsizing and right-sizing,
all the trend that's going on
with companies and mergers,
different mindsets coming
together with corporations.
How do you mesh these things?
And different responsibilities,
more responsibilities,
less employees-- how do
you handle all of that?
How do you balance those things?
And that's really what
the demand has been,
overwhelmingly.
And it comes back to those
fundamental pieces again--
the ones that we've heard
but we haven't done.
Is understanding, even in the
midst of the work environment,
where you have some limitation
on choosing certain things,
but understanding what's
the most important thing?
You have to have some-- make
a list of the many things you
have.
>> That, I think, is a very,
very good point that you make
here.
You say, "Take time
every day to plan.
And Robert Schuller once said,
'People don't plan to fail.
They fail to plan.'"
>> Absolutely.
Absolutely.
>> You actually
make a list, right?
>> Every day.
I do it on my
computer, actually.
I have a computer program.
And again, you need
to use technology
as much as you can
to shorten your time.
But every morning--
I mean, maybe on Saturdays
and Sundays I might slack off.
But I have a list of
everything that I need to do.
And then-- here's the key part.
Because a lot of people make
the list-- and that's good.
That's the first step.
But the second is critical--
is to prioritize it.
Because you can
have a whole list,
and you put the fun things,
the easy things, at the top.
And the most
critical component--
maybe it's something you
really don't want to do.
It's challenging, it takes more
time, or whatever it might be.
But it's the most
essential thing
to get done-- could
be further down.
If it's not at the
top of the list,
that's when you're
going to get in trouble.
And that's when
the stress comes.
That's when the concern comes.
And that's when
the panic sets in.
Because at the end of the day--
and you've got many things done,
perhaps, but the most important
is not.
Real fundamental.
And people don't do that.
I remember a story I
heard a long time ago,
and it's so fitting.
I guess it happened in the '30s.
And it was a consultant that
was brought into a company
to look at the operations.
They weren't producing
as much as they could,
or as efficiently as they could.
So they brought in
this consultant.
Consultant came and observed
for a couple of days.
And at the end of that, he
sat down with the executive
and said, it's real simple.
You need to just make a
list, prioritize it, start
at the top, and
unless you absolutely
have to go to the next thing,
do not move from that first task
until you can get--
it's completed.
Well, the manager
or the executive
said, I'm not going to pay you
what we talked about for this--
for you to come and
tell me to make a list,
prioritize it, and follow it?
So the consultant said, fine.
Tear up the old agreement.
Just use this simple
idea for 30 days.
At the end of that
period, send me a check
for what you think it's worth.
Executive said,
OK, we'll do that.
So he did that.
At the end of the 30 days, he
sent this consultant $25,000--
now, this is back in the '30s--
just for that one idea.
Because it really is powerful.
It's simple, but that's what
we need to do to get some order
and get rid of
some of the stress.
Because if you
don't get something
else done that's
not as important,
you don't feel as bad.
So it's really simple.
>> Yeah.
I think what we do is, we tend
to do the easy stuff first.
>> The fun things.
You call your friends.
I've got to call my
friend, but you're
on the phone for 20 minutes.
Yes.
>> So you could
write this-- really,
you don't have to be so
sophisticated as to put it
on a computer.
You could put it on the
back of an envelope.
>> A piece of-- whatever.
>> And just put--
next to what's most
important, put an A or a 1.
>> A or 1.
A, B, C. 1, 2, 3.
There's different systems.
Whatever works for the person.
But there's got to
be some semblance of,
what's a priority?
Number one, A, has
to be essential.
It has to get done.
Absolutely.
It's fundamental-- critical.
>> And you start.
>> You start there.
And then, after you do
that-- because you're
going to have several things.
You don't want to have
a long laundry list.
You need to make it realistic.
But after you've done that,
you're going to have several
A's, several B's, several C's.
Then you need to go back,
even within that category.
What's the most fundamental
thing that has to be done?
>> You know what I
found when I do this?
And I do this every
once in a while.
And I'm going to start
doing it tomorrow.
>> Good, good.
>> By the time you
get around to the C,
sometimes the people
have forgotten about it,
and you don't have
to do it at all.
>> That's true.
That is very true.
And here's another secret.
Here's a really good one.
And I don't do this as well.
And I'm getting better.
Is, those C's, or
mini-things, delegate.
Delegate, delegate, delegate.
You have this long list.
There's certain
things you have to do.
There's many things you really
don't have to do yourself.
And, yes, I don't give them
out to other people too well.
But that's what we need to do.
If there's someone else-- if
you're not the only one that
has to do it, delegate it.
That's the rule of
thumb to start with.
There are some times
you still can do it--
some things that you could
have someone else do.
But if you're not the
one that has to do this,
try to find someone
else to do it.
That's a really good--
>> Find somebody who hasn't
learned yet to say no.
>> That's true.
That's pretty bad,
but that's true.
And then the other thing--
think of this.
You're really giving
them an opportunity
to expand their horizons,
to experience this activity.
Because, truly, they
could be at a point--
it could be someone
that's working
for you that you're going to
delegate a responsibility to.
And they're growing.
They're learning
from doing this.
You still have responsibility
when you delegate,
but you don't actually
devote the time, necessarily,
to do it.
>> Phone call.
>> That's right.
Have someone else to do that.
And that's so important.
And you could say--
you can look at it
as a way of helping other
people grow, which is true.
So that's another
really strong tip.
>> I think that it comes down--
especially for women, I think.
We feel we have to do
everything so perfectly.
>> Oh, that's a good one.
>> Getting in the car and
driving 6 miles to get
something that's on sale that
you can buy in your corner
grocery for $1 more is something
we feel obligated to do when
we--
why are we spending
all of that time?
>> I don't really know.
>> It's about being
a superwoman again.
>> It is.
It is.
And here's another piece that
goes right along with that--
is that we don't either feel we
can, or whatever the reason is,
to bring people--
help into the house--
to the household.
Now, some people say, well,
I really can't afford this.
But it's almost-- if you're
working and trying to run
a household, you almost
cannot afford to do this.
>> Or a simple thing like taking
the shirts out of the laundry,
and paying $1 apiece
to have them done.
>> That's right.
>> Instead of you trying to--
>> Instead of--
>> --sit there and iron them.
>> --figuring you've
got to iron them.
>> That's right.
That's correct.
That's--
>> Or even wash them
and shake them out.
>> Mhm.
That is so true.
And you need to
free up yourself--
there's some things you need
to do, and you want to do.
That you want to have a
connection with the children.
You want to do certain things.
You don't necessarily want to
give up all of those things.
But there are some things--
and I remember someone--
distinctly-- telling me,
Celeste, with the kind
of schedule you have,
and the running around, you
cannot afford to be doing
housecleaning all
day long on Saturday.
You need to have a point where
you can rest and rejuvenate.
And you can't do that if you're
always working, or always doing
something.
Then some people you can hire.
It's worth it.
Turn down that dinner.
Instead of spending $25
there, or $50 that week--
and pay someone to come
and do something for you.
It's invaluable.
It really is.
>> We feel guilty.
>> Well, that's true.
But we're going to have
to deal with our guilt,
or we're going to
deal with the stress--
the remnants of that.
And that's really not healthy.
Because ultimately, if we get
burnt out, as we said before,
and you get to the point
where you can't function,
that's worse than having someone
else to come in and do it.
>> Somebody cleans every day.
>> That's right.
That's right.
And you don't want
to go out that way.
Again, I've seen many
people that I know,
or people I've heard
of, that wait until they
get some terminal illness,
or some crisis that they've
heard about, or that they're
experiencing indirectly,
or something comes up before
they pay attention, and realize
that they must take
this time along the way
to have-- to reduce the stress.
Stress is a killer.
Do you know, we have incredible
heart attack rate-- just
continues to go up every year.
The drugs, and amphetamines, and
the different barbiturates that
are prescribed are incredible--
that we continue
to do these things,
just pacifying ourselves,
when in essence,
if we just did the fundamental
things of taking time
to rejuvenate, taking
time to be quiet.
Don't answer that phone.
Take that hour for yourself.
Make an appointment
with yourself.
Put it in the date book.
>> There's so many things in
here that we could talk about,
but that was a very
good suggestion, too--
when you make out your
calendar for the month,
to actually put some
time in for yourself,
say, from 2:00 to 4:00.
And make up somebody's name.
>> Whoever you want.
And keep that appointment.
And do not-- treat it
like an appointment.
Because it is.
And it's so important.
You're as important as any
other appointment that you have.
You're more important, actually.
And so without that--
go to the movies.
Do the things that--
I mean, I didn't do that.
I had gotten so away from that.
I mean, the things
that I really enjoyed.
And I worked in--
I'm in business for myself.
And people often want to do.
We want to be able
to have our own time.
Well, you get into working
for yourself and you realize,
you really don't
have a lot of time,
because everything is
dependent upon you.
But you must build in
that time to remember
why you did this in the
beginning, and to enjoy life--
to really make a difference.
And so I really urge
people to put them
in their schedule-- at the top.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
>> What about putting in your
schedule to go into business
for yourself?
Do you recommend it
to somebody out there?
Do you like it?
>> Oh, I love it.
I love it.
And it's a lot of
responsibility.
It's not as easy as
many people think.
But--
>> You're the worst boss
you ever had, I bet.
>> I am.
I'm harder on myself
because it's my passion.
It's what I want to do.
And I think most people
that go in business
for themselves do
what they really
want to do-- their purpose.
And that's really
key for me, as well.
I think if we do
that, it's worth it.
It's worth it.
>> Golly, you've been
a real joy to have on.
You look wonderful, so you
must be doing something right.
>> Thank you.
>> We've been talking
with Celeste Johnson,
and her wonderful tape program
and her workbook called "The
Balancing Act."
We bring you only
miracles on this show.
Keep coming back.